{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red25\green25\blue25;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 We regret that we cannot accept your manuscript "When Do States Say Uncle? Network Dependence and Sanction Compliance" for publication in International Organization.\
\
Comments from the Reviewers can be found below. We were fortunate to have reviewers both with familiar with network effects and with sanctions. \
\
As you will see, both have a number of critical comments regarding the paper. Both suggest that the paper could use some help on the motivation side. Both also suggest spending a lot more time defining and thinking about the role of reciprocity in your theory and empirics. What is it capturing? How is it different conceptually from other concepts in the sanctions literature? You no doubt have answers to these questions, but as both reviewers emphasize, they should be in the paper.\
\
In sum, these reviews do not give us the support we would need to move forward with the paper. We hope you find the reviewers' comments useful in your future research on this topic. \'a0Thank you for your interest in International Organization.\
\
Sincerely,\
\
Jon Pevehouse\
for the Editorial Team at\
International Organization\
\
Comments from the Reviewers:\
\
Reviewer #1: The manuscript "When do states say uncle? Network dependence and sanction compliance" puts forth the argument that reciprocity (in a network sense) is essential to explaining the pattern of compliance and non-compliance with sanctions. It first briefly describes the social relations model, and then uses a duration model to test hypotheses generated. The hypotheses are that states will comply more rapidly if sanctions are imposed by states they have a history of reciprocal compliance with (H2 is just the opposite of this, so not really a different hypothesis) and that the more senders of sanctions, the shorter the time to compliance.\
\
The paper has one strength: the validation approach of its empirical findings. This is commendably done. Overall however it is disappointing and far from publishable. First, the findings are trivial and not really in contradiction with the literature, so little additional knowledge is gained. The paper gives the impression of a technically well executed piece that makes a minuscule improvement on the literature, sort of like a graduate student paper that emerged out of a replication exercise in a methods class. What exactly reciprocity means beyond the mathematical definition and the idea of a directional network tie is not very clearly defined.\
\
Second, the paper is marred by frequent spelling mistakes (hint: you can use a spell checker in Latex, too), and by phrases that do not make any sense. I would expect that the authors of a submission to IO that deals with sanctions are at least able to spell send and receive (not send and recieve) and complement (not compliment). Phrases like "By the 1980s, the South African apartheid regime had been in power since 1948" are embarrassing in an attempt at a major league publication.\
\
In general the paper makes no theoretical and a very limited empirical contribution and is thus not appropriate for the leading journal in IR. I would recommend using the manuscript as the basis of a paper that expands in different directions and actually leverages the potential of the social relations model to come up with more important findings.\
\
\
Reviewer #2: IO MS: 3374 When Do States Say Uncle? Network Dependence and Sanction Compliance\
\
This paper sets out to explain the duration of sanctions?specifically, when target states will choose to comply with the sender's demands and the sanction spell will end. The key argument is that sanctions are driven by the interdependent nature of the international system, and that most other scholars have failed to incorporate reciprocity between states into their duration models.\
\
While I find parts of the paper quite interesting, and like the idea that sanctions create networks of ties between states, I do not recommend publication in IO at this time. There are a few key issues that the paper would benefit from more clearly engaging.\
\
The paper would benefit from a different entry point. Currently, it repeats many times how scholars have failed to incorporate networks in their models of sanctions. (It then goes on to cite at least one recent paper by Cranmer et al that does just this, and does not make mention of some others that do, such as a paper by Montgomery in the JCR, 2008.) This is not especially convincing or compelling. I recommend instead a reason why network variables?and reciprocity in particular?is important. Perhaps start with a puzzling sanctions episode that alternative theories cannot explain but that begs for an explanation based on reciprocity. \
\
At times the paper reads as if reciprocity is a central theoretical concept; at others, it reads as if it is simply a control against which to reevaluate other theories. I would crisp this up. Table 2 shows that the two reciprocity measures are significant, but very little else changes in the models in terms of substantive results for the alternative explanations. You might set this up more clearly to compare the relative importance of alternative explanations.\
\
The paper could use a more detailed 'model' of sanctions, in terms of incentives and process for 'complying', including incentives of the target states. It rightly states that there are a lot of motives for targeting sanctions and for complying, but then goes on to focus on when targets comply in whole (or in part) without much discussion. Complying in the threat stage and the imposition stage seem quite different. And it was not clear if the stalemate data were also included in the measure of compliance. Are they? Clarifying this would be helpful, because if they were, then the measure is an indicator of the end of sanctions (no longer ongoing) rather than compliance (target changes behavior), and sanctions can end for a variety of reasons that have more to do with the sender than the target. I couldn't tell. But if you are modeling when sanctions end, then there must be some role for the target state in the set up. Clarify.\
\
I do not understand the logic for why reciprocity matters in this context. I think the theoretical set up could be expanded to provide a more detailed explanation for why the evolution of interactions between states matters. The measures strike me as a bit strange and abstract. The idea that if i complies often to j, j will be more likely to comply with i doesn't make a lot of sense on the surface of it when it comes to sanctions, because aren't sanctions usually a one way road? The US sanctions lots of others; those others vary rarely sanction the US. if they do, we must be talking about a small handful of cases where 'reciprocity' in compliance could matter. South Africa is not going to sanction the US. it would help tremendously to clarify, not simply in the math, but logically, what you think these variables measure, give some examples, and tie them back to the explanation for why reciprocity matters. Otherwise, I just don't know what to make of the coefficients. More\
descriptive information would help. There is quite a bit that could easily be moved into an appendix to make room for a lengthier discussion of the logic behind H1?for instance, pages 9-10.\
\
The measure of resolve, or sanction reciprocity, is interesting, though I'm not sure that the logical conclusion is that high reciprocity in this context leads to more resistance rather than cooperation by the target. Maybe it indicates that the target is more resolved. And, you might think that multiple sanctions by the same sender could just as easily wear the target down over time. Thus, I'm not sure I buy the logic for H2.\
\
H3 and 4 seem to come out of nowhere in the discussion (though they are commonly tested in other studies of sanctions) are not connected to the idea of reciprocity, which seems to be the main focus of the paper. And H4 has five measures, giving the paper 8 hypotheses to test, without much explanation for why trade networks or alliances should matter. Perhaps stick to reciprocity and discuss these others as controls? Or offer a deeper discussion of networks more generally and how they should influence target behavior. Why these measures of proximity? Other common ones include UN affinity, IO networks, etc. Also, that some forms of proximity seem to matter but others do not begs for an explanation. Why in the world would states comply less with neighbors? Why don't alliances matter?\
\
There are a lot of sanctions papers cited here, and it is not clear which if any of them the authors are replicating and then adding in their measures. A more detailed justification of the model as relates to these cited works would be useful. This is especially important given that the results indicate some conclusions that are contrary to these other studies.\
\
I hope these comments are helpful. I'd take a step back and think about the underlying process and story you want to tell about reciprocity, focus your attention there, build the logic, and give some examples and life to the empirics to make them less abstract. Good luck.\
}